docs: add apisix integrates with hydra blog (#1187)
iresty/iresty.github.io: website/blog/2022/07/04/apisix-integrates-with-hydra.md

---
title: "APISIX integrates with Ory Hydra"
authors:
  - name: "Fei Han"
    title: "Technical Writer"
    url: "https://github.com/hf400159"
    image_url: "https://github.com/hf400159.png"  
keywords: 
- Apache APISIX
- API Gateway
- Authentication
- Hydra

> - Openid connect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OpenID Connect
```

With the `openid-connect` plugin supported by APISIX, we can integrate with authenticators supporting the OpenID Connect protocol. For example: Ory Hydra. For more information, please refer to: [Centralized Identity Authentication](https://apisix.apache.org/blog/2021/08/25/using-the-apache-apisix-openid-connect-plugin-for-centralized-authentication/#what-is-authentication).

One of the biggest advantages of Ory Hydra is that it implements the OAuth and OpenID Connect standards instead of forcing you to use "Hydra user management" (login, logout, profile management, registration), a specific template engine, or a predefined front end.

It allows to use the authentication mechanisms required by your program (token-based 2FA, SMS 2FA, etc.) and implement user management and login in your technology stack. Of course, you can also use existing solutions, such as [authboss](https://github.com/go-authboss/authboss). It gives you all the great features of OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect while being minimally intrusive to your business logic and technology stack.

> OAuth 2.0 can be used in many environments for various purposes. This list might help you decide if OAuth 2.0 and Hydra are the right fit for a use case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OAuth 2.0 can be used in many environments for various purposes. The following information may help you decide whether OAuth 2.0 and Hydra are suitable for a certain scenario:
```

1. enable third-party solutions to access your APIs.

> 2. be an Identity Provider like Google, Facebook, or Microsoft: OpenID Connect, and thus Hydra is a perfect fit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. be an Identity Provider like Google, Facebook, or Microsoft.
```

3. enable your browser, mobile, or wearable applications to access your APIs: Running an OAuth2 Provider can work great for this. You don't have to store passwords on the device and can revoke access tokens at any time.
4. you want to limit what type of information your backend services can read from each other. For example, the comment service should only be allowed to fetch user profile updates but shouldn't be able to read user passwords.

## Operation steps

Next, I will show you how APISIX integrates with Hydra using a real example. In this example, Docker will be used to running the required environment. Please install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) before doing this.

### Step 1: Create and deploy the database

> For quick deployment of the test environment, we will use Docker to run PostgreSQL as Hydra's database. Using Docker to run the database in production is not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For quick deployment of the test environment, we will use Docker to run PostgreSQL as Hydra's database. It's not recommended to use Docker to run the database in production.
```

```shell
docker network create hydraguide && \
docker run \
  --network hydraguide \
  --name ory-hydra-example--postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=hydra \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=hydra \
  -d postgres:9.6
```

> The above command will create a network named hydraguide and start a Postgres instance named ory-hydra-example--postgres which creates the database hydra, the user hydra, and the user password secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above command will create a network named `hydraguide` and start a Postgres instance named `ory-hydra-example--postgres` which creates the database `hydra`, the user `hydra`, and the user password `secret`.
```

  -e URLS_SELF_ISSUER=https://localhost:5444/ \
  -e URLS_CONSENT=http://localhost:9020/consent \
  -e URLS_LOGIN=http://localhost:9020/login \
  oryd/hydra:v1.10.6 serve all
```

You can view Hydra logs using the following command:

```shell
docker logs ory-hydra-example--hydra
```

:::note

If the Hydra password is not specified, you can find the password information in the log. If you forget your password, you will not be able to restart Hydra.

:::

You can also use the following commands to view Hydra related introductions and operation commands.

```shell
docker run -it --rm --entrypoint hydra oryd/hydra:v1.10.6 help serve
```

### Step 3: Deploy login and authentication programs

Login Provider and Consent Provider can be two separate web services. Hydra provides sample programs that combine both functions in one application. Next, we'll deploy the application using Docker.

```shell
docker pull oryd/hydra-login-consent-node:v1.10.6 && \
docker run -d \
  --name ory-hydra-example--consent \
  -p 9020:3000 \
  --network hydraguide \
  -e HYDRA_ADMIN_URL=https://ory-hydra-example--hydra:4445 \
  -e NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=0 \
  oryd/hydra-login-consent-node:v1.10.6
```

> You can check if the program is working properly with the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following command to check whether the program runs normally:
```

    "plugins":{
        "openid-connect":{
            "client_id":"facebook-photo-backup",
            "client_secret":"some-secret",
            "discovery":"https://127.0.0.1:5444/.well-known/openid-configuration",
            "scope":"openid",
            "token_endpoint_auth_method": "client_secret_basic",
            "bearer_only": false,
            "redirect_uri":"http://127.0.0.1:9080/callback"
        }
    },
    "upstream":{
        "type":"roundrobin",
        "nodes":{
            "127.0.0.1:8081":1
        }
    }
}'
```

### Step 6: Visit the webpage

1. Enter `http://127.0.0.1:9080/index.html` in the browser. Since the `openid-connect` plugin has been enabled, the page is redirected to the login page, enter the default account password into the user authentication program.

![network-error/Authentication page](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/blog/0704/1.png)

2. Select the authentication protocol and click `Allow Access`.

![network-error/select page](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/blog/0704/2.png)

3. After successful verification, you can access the upstream service page.

![network-error/upstream page](https://static.apiseven.com/2022/blog/0704/3.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: ditto, see comments in zh-cn file.
